Your Ryzen 7 9800 X2D is powerful, but
right now you're leaving FPS on the
table. With just a few BIOS tweaks,
we're going to unlock smoother gameplay,
lower input lag, and even cooler
temperatures. Let's go. Even though the
Ryzen 9800 XD is one of the best CPUs
for gaming, your motherboard's default
BIOS settings are built for stability
and not speed. And that just leaves
performance on the table. So, we're
going to fix all of that and make the
CPU behave like it should be for high
FPS competitive gaming. So, with AMD
specifically, especially the Zen 5 and
Zen 4 architecture, you want to make
sure you're on the latest BIOS version.
So, the easiest way to check if you're
on the latest BIOS is just type MS info
32 in your Windows search bar. It's
going to bring up system information.
And you just want to look at your BIOS
version/ date. As you can see, mine is
from March 5th, 2025. And then next
thing you want to do once you have
noticed what version and what date of
BIOS you're on, you going to go to
baseboard product, press Ctrl C on your
keyboard, then open up your browser and
then open up a new tab and then paste
that into there. Then you want to go to
the support page of your motherboard and
you want to make sure that you're on the
latest BIOS version available. So as you
can see version right here says version
1 M3. If we go back to system
information, I am on 1 M3 right here and
the date is around the same thing, March
2025. So, this is a really, really easy
fix for performance, for bugs, for blue
screens, just updating the BIOS, the
latest version on AMD, because there's
been a lot of problems in the older BIOS
versions, especially if you're on BIOS
versions from 2023 or early 2024. So,
make sure to update the BIOS before
following the optimization guide. That's
going to yield you the best results.
Now, once you already know that your
BIOS is already up to date, we've
already updated it, then we can restart
our computer and spam the delete key or
whatever key is required to head over to
BIOS. So, what you want to do is you
want to press F6 on your keyboard to
load optimize defaults if you have this
option. However, if you're just on a
normal BIOS where F6 isn't an option,
just go to save and exit and click load
restore defaults or just load UEFI
defaults just to make sure that we're
working off a fresh slate and you're not
working off of anything from different
videos or on your own work that could
tamper with this video. Then we're going
to go to overclocking settings and X3D
gaming mode. I just want to highlight
something for everybody. If you're on a
Ryzen 9 X3D processor, I would recommend
turning this on. However, what this is
going to do, this is going to disable
the second group of cores in a Ryzen 9
because Ryzen 9's are basically either
Ryzen 5s combined into one. So, two
Ryzen 5s into one, that's a Ryzen 9 7900
X3D, for example, or there are two Ryzen
7s combined into one like the 7950 X3D
or 9950 X3D. So, X3D gaming mode is
going to help a lot with gaming.
However, you are disabling the second
group of cores. to only be on, for
example, eight cores versus 16 or six
cores versus 12. So that that's if
you're on a Ryzen line. There are ways
to just not have that happen. So you
just leave this disabled if you don't
want that to happen. And then just
figure out how to let the games run on
the first group of cores in Windows. A
little bit of extra setup with that. I'm
not going to go over that in this video
just because I'm on a Ryzen 7 9800 X3D
and most of everybody watching is going
to be on a Ryzen 7 or under. If you're
on a Ryzen 9, test with X3D gaming mode.
you're going to get way more performance
in games, but you are disabling half of
your cores and you're disabling SMT. But
let's just say that you're not on a
Ryzen 9, just leave this disabled. I
don't like what it does for normal CPUs
just because it disables SMT and causes
a little bit of stutters here and there
just due to that one factor. We're going
to go to advanced CPU configuration and
you're going to disable PSS support.
This is kind of like a power saving
option, so just disable it. NX mode is
kind of like a security option. It's
very very useless unless face it
requires it or Valerant anti-che makes
you turn that on. If both of those make
you turn them on, just leave them alone.
However, if you don't play those two
games like Face It Counter-Strike or
Valerant, you can just disable it. Then
at the bottom, you want to disable FCH
threat spectrum. And this just helps
with EMI. Basically, if you enable it,
it's going to reduce the effects of EMI
on your PC. But if you disable it, it's
going to consistently keep your base
clock speed on 100. But I would
recommend just leaving it disabled for
99% of you. There are some people who
would benefit from turning this on.
However, go to AMD overclocking and you
want to disable L2 mode because we're
not going to be using this at all. It's
completely useless. And then you want to
disable this row VRM throttling option.
And this just disables any throttling on
the VRM and helps us get better
overclocks. SMT control. If you're on a
Ryzen 9, disable this for gaming. If
you're not on a Ryzen 9, do not disable
this. This causes weird stutters and
just a lot of hiccups in gaming on a
Ryzen 7 or under. So, don't disable it.
Just leave it auto. I know a lot of
people say, "Oh, it gives you lower
latency." It doesn't really matter. The
effects that it applies on games and FPS
is super weird and super depending on
the PC. Like, some people notice it
whenever you disable it. Some people
don't notice it. But for the purpose of
this video, just to make everyone
completely on the same page, just leave
this on auto. Go to precision boost
overdrive. And for everybody watching
this video, you can set this to
advanced. PVO limits set to motherboard.
And precision boost overdrive scale
control set to manual. You can leave it
on 1x and CPU boost clock overrides that
this is enabled positive and type 200.
And what this is going to do, it's going
to pretty much increase the limit of
where precision boost overdrive can
boost up towards. So after setting this
to 200 MHz, my CPU will try to boost to
5.5 GHz in gaming. Now, this is not
really an overclock. This just increases
the limit of how far precision boost
overdrive will go up to. Then go to
curve optimizer and set this to all
cores and set the sign to negative. And
usually every single CPU should be able
to do at least 10 right here. You could
test out with higher, but for the
purposes of this video, I'm just going
to set it to 10 because anything higher
then cause blue screens, crashes, or
just weird stutters in gaming because
it's unstable. And this is basically
like an undervolt. We're basically
undervolting by 10 on the curve. So if
you increase it, some of your cores
might become unstable because those
cores are faster than the rest of the
cores and they need more voltage to
increase the speed regarding precision
booster overdrive. So, a lot of
complicated stuff I just mentioned right
now, but if you just want plug and play
option, put it to 10 and ignore it. Then
go back twice by pressing escape. Then
go back one more time. Go to AMD CBS and
global seate control. This is basically
just a power saving option. It sets some
of your cores to sleep. I've had some
arguments where they've said if you
disable this, your CPU can't boost as
high, but on this generation of AMD,
I've found it to be very, very helpful.
Disabilization, just disable it unless
you need it for whatever. Then IO MMU,
same thing as SVM related to
virtualization. So just disable it if
you don't need it. PCIe ARI support.
Disable this. And then CPPC dynamic
preferred boards. If you're on a Ryzen 9
with an X3D at the end, set this to
cache. However, if you're not a Ryzen 9
or you don't have a Ryzen 9 X3D, just
leave it on bottom. Let's go down to the
bottom. And you just leave everything
how it is. Go back. Go back again. And
you want to set your AXMP or XO to
obviously enabled. And then DRAM speed.
For the purposes of this video, everyone
set it to 6,000. Do not set it to
anything higher. I know some people have
bought 6,400 MHz sticks or in my case, I
have 7200 MHz sticks. These are not
going to work on the CPU out of the box.
Now, 7,200 should not be used
regardless, even if it works or not.
6,400 requires a lot of tuning, and most
9800 X2Ds and 7800 XDs cannot do 6,400
MHz just because they just can't. The
integrated memory controller just can't
handle it. So, the best plug-and-play
option is 6,000. FCLK frequency, you
want to set this to 2,000. And UCLK div
one mode. This is the most important
option. You want to set to UCLK equals
MECLK without the divided by two option.
Just this. Then you want to scroll down
and go to advanced TAM configuration.
And just for the purposes of this video,
I recommend setting your TREFI to
32767. This is a super safe value that
should work for all motherboards, all
RAM sticks, all CPUs. T or RDL is kind
of dependent on what RAM sticks you've
got. If you have 32 GB of RAM or higher,
you can just set this to 12 and the one
right under it sets to eight. TFAB, as
always, set it to 32 and you're good to
go from there. Scroll down and right
here, you want to disable TSME and you
want to disable data script. Now, I'm
not disabling power down enabled because
of a specific reason. If I disable power
down enable and keep memory contact
restore on auto, this is going to cause
blue screening uh issues, common bug.
So, don't disable power down enabled.
Leave it auto. However, if you want to
disable power down and label, you have
to disable memory contacts restore as
well. But this is going to make your
boot times very, very slow. It's going
to take up to two minutes just to boot
up your computer. So that's why I'm
leaving these two on auto for the
purposes of this video. Then go back and
go to motherboard settings. Go to
advanced and you want to disable MSI
driver utility installer. And if you
don't use your SATA ports on your
motherboard, you can just disable this.
However, I do use my SATA ports on this
motherboard. So I'm going to keep as
media SATA support enabled. Go to PCI
subsystem settings. And for the purposes
of this video, you could test out with
resize bar support disabled and above 4G
memory disabled. In games like Call of
Duty, Fortnite, and I think Valerin,
this doesn't help or it makes things
worse. Especially in a game like Call of
Duty, this just makes your FPS 10 times
worse. On Fortnite, I've done some
testing and it does the same thing. So,
reason support. I know in every single
video that you've seen on YouTube, they
tell you to leave it enabled. Does it
help? Blah blah blah blah blah. However,
these guys never do their own testing.
never ever hop in a game and actually
test it again. So, if you're playing
Black Ops 6, War Zone, Fortnite,
Valerant, and some of these popular
games, you can pretty much just set this
to disabled because you're not losing
FPS and you're most likely having more
consistent FPS just by disabling it.
However, if you do have a game that 100%
boosts FPS by enabling this, then by all
means, set this to enabled. However, for
most of my viewers, this doesn't do
anything for their games. Gen mode, max
this out, set to gem four or gem five,
and do that for every single gem mode
and gen switch settings like I'm doing
right now. ASM control, disable this.
This is just basically power saving for
your PCIe lanes. So, just disable it. Go
back, go to integrated graphics
configuration, and we're going to
disable the integrated graphics on our
CPU because we're not using them when
using the dedicated graphics card that
we have plugged into our mother. Then go
back, go to USB configuration, and if
you want to disable legacy USB support,
you can. However, your USB port, your
USB sticks might not be recognized by
BIOS if you disable this. But for the
purposes of this video, I'm just going
to disable it because I don't need USB
stick support on this motherboard. Go
back and go to AMD overclocking. Press
accept. And we're just going to go to
SOC/core OC mode. And just make sure
this is set to enabled because this
removes some idle power savings. Then go
back. Go back again. Go back one more
time. Go back two more times. And go to
hardware monitor on the right. And this
is by far the most important part of
this video. You want to make sure that
your fan speeds are maxed out. You want
to make sure every single fan in your PC
is blowing at max speed, especially the
ones on your CPU cooler. And if you have
a software like NZXT or IQ from Corsair,
you want to go in that software and max
out your pump speeds and your fan speeds
on the CPU cooler because precision
boost overdrive and how these CPUs work
is that if your temperatures are lower,
the CPU will boost higher. Aka, you'll
get more FPS the lower the temperatures
are on your prospect. So that's a very
very important step on these CPUs. If
you want to have the best performance,
you want to have the best cooling on
these processors. So you want to make
sure that you have at least the water
cooler or something of that sort on your
CPU in order to get the best
performance, especially if you're on a
Ryzen 9. Then you can just pretty much
close out of this with OC profile on the
right. And then just save this as an
overclocking profile in case for
whatever reason you need to load the
settings back up. And then all you have
to do from there is press F10 or press
play and exit on your BIOS and press yes
on that. So, as you can see, we're back
in Windows, and right now, as you guys
can see, we're in a screenshot of Black
Ops 6 benchmark. And this is pretty much
my PC right now, a Ryzen 700 XD with an
RTX 3090 running on 1080p. These are the
Black Ops 6 benchmark results without
any of these optimizations. We're
getting around 341 average CPU FPS right
here. As you can see, 255 on the low
percentile and a low first percentile,
233. So already pretty good at FPS
compared to Intel out of the box. We're
already beating Intel if Intel was
completely stock and there was nothing
done to Intel CPUs. So that's pretty
nice. But after tuning everything after
following this guide, you should be able
to get results like this around 467
average FPS in CPU, 378 average fifth
percentile FPS, and low first percentile
FPS 345. Now, just from this alone, you
can see we're getting around 110 FPS or
120 FPS, somewhere around there, just
from doing BIOS settings, just from
casually optimizing for precision boost,
overdrive, and making sure everything is
completely solid. Now, I just want to
confess the these two screenshots are
with everything completely overclocked.
So, I do have my graphics card
overclocked in the after picture versus
no overclocking on this picture. And
also I do have my RAM overclocked at
6,200 MHz with an infinity graphic
frequency of 2067 on the after
benchmark. So that does give me a little
bit more FPS compared to what you
probably are going to get, but you
should expect somewhat similar results
on 1080p in this benchmark. So other
than that, that's going to be pretty
much it for this video, guys. Hope you
guys enjoyed. Hope you guys got more
FPS. Comment down below how much more
FPS you get just from following the
simple BIOS optimization guide on your
Ryzen 7 X3D CPU or your regular Ryzen
CPU. Other than that, if you guys want
all this done for you, along with PC
optimizing, along with PC overclocking
your RAM, CPU, and your graphics card,
along with installing this custom
Zillios on your PC to get the maximum
possible FPS without sacrificing
compatibility and with have and while
having everything working on your
computer, then go to the first link in
the description and book a PC
optimization service. You could look
through my ex profile and see all the
stuff that we've been doing on people's
computers. We've been getting crazy
results just from casual optimizations
to competitive optimizations. We've been
giving people 200 plus FPS boost. We've
been reducing their input lag. We've
been just doing insane amount of things
on there. So, if you want to see the
proof in the pudding, then go to my X
profile and just look at the stuff that
we've been doing on people's computers.
Other than that though, hope you guys
enjoyed and I'll see you guys in the
next one. Peace out.